Welcome to the introduction of functional programming.
Let's dial it back for a second though,
and before taking a look at functional programming in particular,
take a look at programming paradigms in general.
What is a programming paradigm?
A paradigm is an overarching approach or style to problem-solving.
Sometimes I think of it as the worldview or culture of a programming language.
One definition states, a programming paradigm
is a philosophy style or general approach to writing code.
But what are some of these programming paradigms?
Here are a few you might run across in real life and that we will cover in this lesson.
The first is the imperative style.
Much like in grammar,
imperatives tell the program what to do step-by-step.
Imperative programs tend to be the first ones we write when we're learning to code.
Because they're very intuitive and oftenly read like recipes,
they're very easy to reason about.
The next is functional.
As you might have guessed,
the functional paradigm is concerned with functions,
where imperative programs describe each action more or less than order.
A functional program would put all of those actions into a function,
and then those functions can be called anywhere or even chained together.
Another paradigm is the object-oriented paradigm.
It is by far the most commonly used in web development today.
Instead of describing steps to be followed or putting functionality into functions,
object-oriented programs focus on objects or the entities in our application.
By putting state and functionality inside of these objects,
we can get a very intuitive program.
There are many more programming paradigms out there,
but these three are probably the most popular.
In the next section,
you'll get to see a full list of paradigms and read about one or two in detail.
最新课程跟课件还有一对一辅导请加wx：udacity6